CloudflareOverview
Cloudflare


The @opennextjs/cloudflare (opens in a new tab) adapter lets you deploy Next.js apps to Cloudflare Workers (opens in a new tab) using the Node.js "runtime" from Next.js (opens in a new tab).


Get Started

New apps

To create a new Next.js app, pre-configured to run on Cloudflare using @opennextjs/cloudflare, run:


npm create cloudflare@latest -- my-next-app --framework=next --platform=workers

Existing Next.js apps

Follow the guide here to use @opennextjs/cloudflare (opens in a new tab) with an existing Next.js app.


Supported Next.js runtimes


Next.js has two "runtimes" (opens in a new tab) — "Edge" and "Node.js". When you use @opennextjs/cloudflare, your app should use the Node.js runtime, which is more fully featured, and allows you to use the Node.js APIs (opens in a new tab) that are provided by the Cloudflare Workers runtime.


This is an important difference from @cloudflare/next-on-pages, which only supports the "Edge" runtime. The Edge Runtime code in Next.js intentionally constrains which APIs from Node.js can be used (opens in a new tab), and the "Edge" runtime does not support all Next.js features.


Supported Next.js versions


All minor and patch versions of Next.js 16 and the latest minors of Next.js 14 and 15 are supported.
Next.js 14 support will be dropped Q1 2026. It is no more supported (opens in a new tab) by the Next.js team.


To help improve compatibility, we encourage you to report bugs (opens in a new tab) and contribute code!


Supported Next.js features



 App Router (opens in a new tab)


 Route Handlers (opens in a new tab)


 Dynamic routes (opens in a new tab)


 Static Site Generation (SSG) (opens in a new tab)


 Server-Side Rendering (SSR) (opens in a new tab)


 Middleware (opens in a new tab)


 Node Middleware (opens in a new tab) introduced in 15.2 are not yet supported


 Image optimization (opens in a new tab) (See this guide to configure Cloudflare Images (opens in a new tab))


 Partial Prerendering (PPR) (opens in a new tab)


 Pages Router (opens in a new tab)


 Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) (opens in a new tab)


 Support for after (opens in a new tab)


 Composable Caching (opens in a new tab) ('use cache')


 Turbopack (opens in a new tab)



We welcome both contributions and feedback!


Windows support


OpenNext can be used on Windows systems but Windows full support is not guaranteed because:



Next.js tooling itself has Windows support issues and OpenNext is built on these tools


the OpenNext team has limited capacity and fully supporting Windows (given the point above)
has been determined to be a lower priority, thus the effort and testing on Windows is limited



Given the above, you can develop your application under Windows at your own risk. If you don't have an alternative we
recommend either:



running OpenNext using the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) (opens in a new tab),


in a Linux Virtual Machine or


develop your application using the standard Next.js tooling and deploy it using OpenNext in CI/CD systems such
as GitHub Actions (opens in a new tab) that run linux/MacOS environments



Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) allows you to run a Linux environment on your Windows machine, without the need for
a separate virtual machine or dual booting. Visual Studio Code has an extension (opens in a new tab)
that makes developing with WSL very easy.


How @opennextjs/cloudflare Works


The OpenNext Cloudflare adapter works by taking the Next.js build output and transforming it, so that it can run in Cloudflare Workers.


When you add @opennextjs/cloudflare (opens in a new tab) as a dependency to your Next.js app, and then run npx @opennextjs/cloudflare the adapter first builds your app by running the build script in your package.json, and then transforms the build output to a format that you can run locally using Wrangler (opens in a new tab), and deploy to Cloudflare.


You can view the code for @opennextjs/cloudflare here (opens in a new tab) to understand what it does under the hood.


Note on Worker Size Limits


The size limit of a Cloudflare Worker is 3 MiB on the Workers Free plan, and 10 MiB on the Workers Paid plan. After building your Worker, wrangler will show both the original and compressed sizes:


Total Upload: 13833.20 KiB / gzip: 2295.89 KiB


Only the latter (compressed size) matters for the Worker size limit (opens in a new tab).
